
                        INTRODUCTION

Cloud computing charecteristics

    - On demand = get what you need when you need it.
    - Broad network acces = you have access private, public and internet.
    - Resource pooling = Lot of supporting resources are shared across multiple tenants.
    - Rapid Elasticity = ability to scale up and down immediately whenever it is required.
    - Measured Service = pay as u go or pay for what you use.

Cloud computing service models
    SAAS
    PAAS
    IAAS (aws is infrastructure as a service model)


Global Infrastructure
    Regions
        currently 14 available regions. regions are primary building blocks of aws, cost of services
        varies across different regions.

    Availability zones
        collection of data centers. every region has atleast two availability zones. connected with private
        fiber are key to high availability and fault tolerance.

    Edge locations
        it serve two aws services

            1. Amazon cloud front. (aws cdn)
            2. route 53
        Edge locations stand on their own.

    Scope of services
        1. Global services
        2. Regional services
        3. Availability zone services


                            SECURITY IN AWS

    multi factor authentication is the combination atleast two of the following three things.

        - Something you know (user name and password)
        - Something you have (token or key devices)
        - Something you are (biometric)
    MFA is the best practise.

    access keys required for using aws cli and aws sdk.

    Permissions and Policies
        permission(authorization is granted via policies)
        policies are written in JSON
        Policies are of two types

            1. Managed policies
                a. aws managed policies
                b. customer managed policies
            2. Inline policy
                put policy diretly to users account.

        We can create policies using
            a. generator
            b. hand written policies

        Evaluation logic of policies are as follows
            - Defaults to implicit deny
            - Explicit deny (this can never be override)
            - Explicit allow

        Amazon resource name(ARN)
            way of uniquely identifying and amazon resource.

            arn:partition:service:region:account-id:resourceType/resource or
            arn:partition:service:region:account-id:resourceType:resource

            most of the partition is named aws.

        Roles
            alternate form of authentication. provides a temporary form of credentials. we can attach roles to
            ec2 instances, aws services or user etc. by using roles temporary credentials will be available
            from aws security token service.

        Federated users

            In corporate environment reuse existing security mechanisms such as LDAP, active directory or SSO
            to login to aws services rather that creating and managing additional aws accounts.

        Resource policies
            policies applied to a resource eg to s3 bucket or dynamodb table.

        Best practises
            - leverage groups
            - grant least privilege
            - implement strong password policy
            - leverage roles for cross account access
            - use explicit deny statements
            - never share credentials
            - 




